The "Hough transform" is a _feature extraction_ technique used in image analysis, computer vision, and digital image processing. The purpose of the technique is to find imperfect instances of objects within a certain class of shapes by a voting procedure. This voting procedure is carried out in a [[parameter space]], from which object candidates are obtained as local maxima in a so-called accumulator space that is explicitly constructed by the algorithm for computing the Hough transform.

The classical Hough transform was concerned with the identification of lines in the image, but later the Hough transform has been extended to identifying positions of arbitrary shapes, most commonly circles or ellipses. The Hough transform as it is universally used today was invented by Richard Duda and Peter E. Hart in 1972, who called it a "generalized Hough transform" after the related 1962 patent of Paul Hough. The transform was popularized in the computer vision community by Dana H. Ballard through a 1981 journal article titled "Generalised Hough transform|Generalizing the Hough transform to detect arbitrary shapes".

== History ==

It was initially invented for machine analysis of bubble chamber photographs (Hough, 1959).

The Hough transform was patented as US patent 3069654 in 1962 and assigned to the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission with the name "Method and Means for Recognizing Complex Patterns".  This patent uses a slope-intercept parametrization for straight lines, which awkwardly  leads to an unbounded transform space since the slope can go to infinity.

The rho-theta parametrization universally used today was first described in "Use of the Hough Transformation to Detect Lines and Curves in Pictures", Comm. ACM, volume 15, pages 11–15, 1972. although it was already standard for the Radon transform since at least the 1930s.

O'Gorman and Clowes' variation is described in "Finding Picture Edges Through Collinearity of Feature Points", IEEE Trans. Comput., volume 25, pages 449–456, 1976.

The story of how the modern form of the Hough transform was invented is given in "How the Hough Transform was Invented", IEEE Signal Processing Magazine, volume 26, pages 18–22, 2009.

==Theory==

In automated analysis of digital images, a subproblem often arises of detecting simple shapes, such as straight lines, circles or ellipses. In many cases an edge detector can be used as a pre-processing stage to obtain image points or image pixels that are on the desired curve in the image space. Due to imperfections in either the image data or the edge detector, however, there may be missing points or pixels on the desired curves as well as spatial deviations between the ideal line/circle/ellipse and the noisy edge points as they are obtained from the edge detector. For these reasons, it is often non-trivial to group the extracted edge features to an appropriate set of lines, circles or ellipses. The purpose of the Hough transform is to address this problem by making it possible to perform groupings of edge points into object candidates by performing an explicit voting procedure over a set of parameterized image objects (Shapiro and Stockman, 304).

...
